=head1 NAME

blazestyle - an introduction to BlazeBlogger stylesheet creation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document tries to provide a brief introduction on how to create new or
modify existing stylesheet for your BlazeBlogger web presentation.

To make it as easy to alter as possible, BlazeBlogger theme consists of two
parts: the template file located in the C<.blaze/theme/> and corresponding
stylesheet in the C<.blaze/style/> directory. This way, you can easily
switch between different styles (e.g. bright and dark one) without even
touching the template file, which generally does not tend to vary much.

The style file itself is just a plain CSS file (CSS 2.1 is recommended,
although not required) with most of its parts dependent on elements,
classes and IDs introduced in the theme file. Those few that are produced
by the B<blaze-make>(1) are described below.

=head2 List of Classes

=over

=item B<post>

C<H2> element containing the page/post title.

=item B<section>

C<DIV> element containing the name of the current section (e.g. monthly
archive, tag listing etc.).

=item B<navigation>

C<DIV> element containing the navigation for the listing browsing (i.e.
previous and next page links).

=item B<information>

C<DIV> element containing the additional information about the post, i.e.
the date of publishing, the post author and the list of attached tags.

=item B<date>

C<SPAN> element containing the date of publishing.

=item B<author>

C<SPAN> element containing the post author.

=item B<tags>

C<SPAN> element containing the list of attached tags.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item I<.blaze/style/>

BlazeBlogger stylesheets directory.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<blazetheme>(7), B<blaze-config>(1), B<blaze-make>(1).

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Jaromir Hradilek <jhradilek@gmail.com>

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.

A copy of the license is included as a file called FDL in the main
directory of the BlazeBlogger source package.
