=head1 NAME

blazeblogger - a CMS without boundaries

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<blaze-init> [B<-fqV>] [B<-b> I<directory>]

B<blaze-config> [B<-qV>] [B<-b> I<directory>] I<name> [I<value>...]

B<blaze-add> [B<-pqPV>] [B<-b> I<directory>] [B<-a> I<author>] [B<-d>
I<date>] [B<-t> I<title>] [B<-T> I<tags>] [B<-u> I<url>] [I<file>...]

B<blaze-edit> [B<-pqPV>] [B<-b> I<directory>] I<id>

B<blaze-remove> [B<-fipqPV>] [B<-b> I<directory>] I<id>...

B<blaze-list> [B<-cpqsCPSV>] [B<-b> I<directory>] [B<-i> I<id>] [B<-a>
I<author>] [B<-t> I<title>] [B<-T> I<tag>] [B<-d> I<day>] [B<-m> I<month>]
[B<-y> I<year>]

B<blaze-make> [B<-pqrtFPV>] [B<-b> I<directory>] [B<-d> I<directory>]

B<blaze-log> [B<-cqsCV>] [B<-b> I<directory>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<BlazeBlogger> is a simple to use but capable CMS for the command line.
Being written in Perl as a cross-platform application and producing the
static content without the need of database servers or server side
scripting, it is literally a CMS without boundaries suitable for a wide
variety of web presentations, from personal weblog to a project page or
even a company presentation.

Using BlazeBlogger is really easy. Strongly inspired by Git in its design
and in the best spirit of Unix philosophy, it comes as a set of smaller
utilities that do one thing and do it well rather than the monolithic
program for everything. Keeping the default configuration you can have a
full-featured blog with the first post in only three steps!

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item B<blazeintro>(7)

An introduction to BlazeBlogger.

=item B<blazetheme>(7)

An introduction to BlazeBlogger theme creation.

=item B<blaze-init>(1)

Create or recover a BlazeBlogger repository.

=item B<blaze-config>(1)

Display or set the BlazeBlogger repository options.

=item B<blaze-add>(1)

Add a blog post or a page to the BlazeBlogger repository.

=item B<blaze-edit>(1)

Edit a blog post or a page in the BlazeBlogger repository.

=item B<blaze-remove>(1)

Remove a blog post or a page from the BlazeBlogger repository.

=item B<blaze-list>(1)

Browse the content of the BlazeBlogger repository.

=item B<blaze-make>(1)

Generate static content from the BlazeBlogger repository.

=item B<blaze-log>(1)

Display the BlazeBlogger repository log.

=back

=head1 BUGS

To report bug or even send patch, either add new issue to the project
bugtracker at <http://code.google.com/p/blazeblogger/issues/>, or visit
the discussion group at <http://groups.google.com/group/blazeblogger/>. You
can also contact the author directly via e-mail.

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Jaromir Hradilek <jhradilek@gmail.com>

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.

A copy of the license is included as a file called FDL in the main
directory of the BlazeBlogger source package.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Jaromir Hradilek

This program is free software; see the source for copying conditions. It is
distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
