=head1 NAME

blazetheme - an introduction to BlazeBlogger theme creation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document tries to provide a brief introduction on how to create new or
modify existing theme for your BlazeBlogger web presentation.

=head2 BlazeBlogger Theme Structure

To make it as easy to alter as possible, BlazeBlogger theme consists of two
parts: the template file located in the C<.blaze/theme/> and corresponding
stylesheet in the C<.blaze/style/> directory. This way, you can easily
switch between different styles (e.g. bright and dark one) without even
touching the template file, which generally does not tend to vary much.

=head2 Creating the Template File

The template file is where the page layout is described. It is a bare HTML
(or XHTML, it really does not matter) file with various placeholders to be
substituted by appropriate data. Most of the placeholders are just ordinary
HTML comments with a reserved strings in them. Note that while the case is
not significant, the fact that the whole placeholder has to be on a single
line is.

For the example usage, see the default template file.

=head3 List of Head Placeholders

These are the placeholders that usually appear in the HEAD section of the
HTML/XHTML document.

=over

=item B<<!-- content-type -->>

The Content-Type META tag.

=item B<<!-- generator -->>

The Generator META tag.

=item B<<!-- date -->>

The Date META tag.

=item B<<!-- stylesheet -->>

The Stylesheet LINK tag.

=item B<<!-- rss -->>

The RSS feed LINK tag.

=item B<<!-- page-title -->>

Current page title, usually used inside TITLE element.

=back

=head3 List of Body Placeholders

These are the placeholders that usually appear in the BODY section of the
HTML/XHTML document.

=over

=item B<<!-- title -->>

The blog title, see C<blog.title> in the BlazeBlogger configuration. You
can use this placeholder in the TITLE element as well.

=item B<<!-- subtitle -->>

The blog title, see C<blog.subtitle> in the BlazeBlogger configuration.

=item B<<!-- name -->>

The user's name, see C<user.name> in the BlazeBlogger configuration.

=item B<<!-- e-mail -->>

The user's e-mail, see C<user.email> in the BlazeBlogger configuration.

=item B<<!-- year -->>

The current year.

=item B<<!-- tags -->>

List of tags.

=item B<<!-- archive -->>

List of months.

=item B<<!-- pages -->>

List of pages.

=item B<<!-- posts -->>

List of recent blog posts.

=item B<<!-- content -->>

Main content (e.g. post or page body, posts listing etc.).

=item B<%root%>

Relative path to the root directory of the blog; to be used inside links.
Note that this is one of two placeholders that can safely appear in the
post/page body as well and will be still taken into account.

=item B<%home%>

Relative path to the website home (index) page; to be used inside links.
Note that this is one of two placeholders that can safely appear in the
post/page body as well and will be still taken into account.

=back

=head2 Creating the Stylesheet

The stylesheet is just a plain CSS file (CSS 2.1 is recommended, although
not required) with most of its parts dependent on elements, classes and IDs
introduced in the theme file. Those few that are produced by the
B<blaze-make>(1) are described below.

For the example usage, see the default stylesheet.

=head3 List of Obligatory Classes

=over

=item B<post>

C<H2> element containing the page/post title.

=item B<section>

C<DIV> element containing the name of the current section (e.g. monthly
archive, tag listing etc.).

=item B<information>

C<DIV> element containing the additional information about the post, i.e.
the date of publishing, the post author and the list of attached tags.

=item B<date>

C<SPAN> element containing the date of publishing.

=item B<author>

C<SPAN> element containing the post author.

=item B<tags>

C<SPAN> element containing the list of attached tags.

=item B<previous>

C<DIV> element containing link to the page with older posts.

=item B<next>

C<DIV> element containing link to the page with newer posts.

=item B<more>

C<A> element containing the `Read more' link.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item I<.blaze/theme/>

BlazeBlogger themes directory.

=item I<.blaze/style/>

BlazeBlogger stylesheets directory.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<blaze-config>(1), B<blaze-make>(1).

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Jaromir Hradilek <jhradilek@gmail.com>

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.

A copy of the license is included as a file called FDL in the main
directory of the BlazeBlogger source package.
