=head1 NAME

blaze-submit - upload the static content to the remote server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<blaze-submit> [B<-c> I<file>] [B<-b> I<directory>] [B<-d> I<directory>]
[B<-H> I<address>] [B<-p> I<port>] [B<-u> I<username>] [B<-P> I<password>]

B<blaze-submit> B<-h> | B<-v>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<blaze-submit> uploads the generated static content to the selected
destination on the remote server of your choice.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-c>, B<--config> I<file>

Specify the alternative configuration I<file>; the default option is
C<.blaze/config>.

=item B<-b>, B<--blogdir> I<directory>

Specify the I<directory> where the static content is created; the default
option is the current working directory.

=item B<-d>, B<--destination> I<directory>

Specify the remote I<directory> where the data are to be placed (e.g.
C</www/blog>).

=item B<-H>, B<--host> I<address>

Remote server address (e.g. C<ftp://example.com>).

=item B<-p>, B<--port> I<port>

Remote server port (e.g. C<21>).

=item B<-u>, B<--username> I<username>

Specify I<username> for remote server authentication.

=item B<-P>, B<--password> I<password>

Specify I<password> for remote server authentication.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display usage information and exit.

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item I<.blaze/config>

BlazeBlogger configuration file.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<lftp>(1), B<perl>(1).

=head1 BUGS

To report bug or even send patch, either add new issue to the project
bugtracker at <http://code.google.com/p/blazeblogger/issues/>, or visit
the discussion group at <http://groups.google.com/group/blazeblogger/>. You
can also contact the author directly via e-mail.

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Jaromir Hradilek <jhradilek@gmail.com>.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.

A copy of the license is included as a file called FDL in the main
directory of the BlazeBlogger source package.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009 SKooDA <http://www.skooda.org/>

This program is free software; see the source for copying conditions. It is
distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
